Have you ever burned out juggling too
many editing tools, writing scripts at
2:00 a.m., or stressing over your
faceless YouTube channel content? Yeah,
me too. It's a lot. One minute you're
brainstorming ideas, the next you're
voicing over, adding subtitles, finding
stock clips. Exhausting. Now, imagine
one free tool that can do all of that
for you. Script writing, voice over,
visuals, even a virtual presenter to be
on camera instead of you. Sounds like
sci-fi, right? Well, it's real and it's
here called Cap Cuts AI Video Maker. The
same Cap Cut you've seen all over Tik
Tok. And trust me, it's a solid tool.
Before we dive in, if you want to try
this with me, click the link in the
description to download Cap Cut for
desktop for free on PC and Mac. Totally
crossplatform with no catches. Download
it now so you can follow along. I'm on
my Mac, but Cap Cut works on Windows PC,
too. I've installed and opened Capkut
desktop, logged in, and right on the
home screen, I spot the magic button, AI
video maker. I click that and a new
workspace opens up. This is the AI video
maker hub. Caput conveniently lays out a
few AI powered options here. Instant AI
video, the one-click route. If you
already have a script ready, just choose
a style, paste your script, and boom,
the AI generates the video. Brainstorm
with AI. Perfect. If you don't have a
script, this helps you generate ideas
and a structured script from just a
topic using an AI powered mind map.
Avatar video for creating a talking AI
avatar presenter video. There are
built-in avatars, trending, casual,
professional, etc. And even an option to
create a custom avatar from a photo.
Great for faceless channels. Match media
to script. If you have your own script
and maybe some footage, this can auto
match your media clips to the scripts
beats. Pretty wild, right? All these
features are neatly in one place and
yes, all free. Pepco basically packed in
auto captioning, texttospech, script
generation, avatar video generation into
this tool. For this demo, let's say I
have an idea but no finished script.
I'll use Brainstorm with AI to show you
how Cap Cut can help craft a script from
scratch. I click on Brainstorm with AI.
Cap Cut asks me to enter an idea or
topic for my video. So, let's do
something relatable. Top five tips to
avoid creator burnout. Because, hey,
that's a struggle we all know. I type
that in as my brainstorming topic. I hit
enter and Caput's AI goes to work. In
seconds, I see a mind map appear with
several branches of subtopics. It's
suggesting things like time management,
batch recording, using AI tools to save
time. Nice. Those are great points. This
brainstorm tool basically helps me
outline a well ststructured video. I can
click the little AI icons next to each
subtopic to generate more ideas on that
point or hit the pin icons to select the
key points I want to include. It's kind
of fun. I'm literally brainstorming with
AI assistant. I'll pick a few key tips
the AI suggested that I like. Say
schedule downtime, leverage automation,
and join a creator community. Now that I
have my main points pinned, I just click
generate script and boom, Cap Cut
generates a full script for my video
right before my eyes. The script
includes an intro, the tips as separate
scenes and a conclusion. Honestly, it's
pretty good for zero effort. It reads
like a decent YouTube narrative with a
logical flow. Of course, AI isn't
perfect, and you guys know I always
preach add in your personal touch.
Overhumanized AI text can slip into
uncanny valley territory. too slick, not
quite natural. No wonder some creators
hesitate. In fact, quick pro tip, make
sure your opening line absolutely hooks
the viewer. The AI gave me a generic
intro, so I'm tweaking it to sound more
exciting and grabby. You can go further
and reduce editing time with a solid
prompt strategy. That's exactly why we
hammer it inside the generative AI
course in AI master membership. Our
members already cut their script in time
in half, minus the robot vibes there.
Much better. A little human touch on top
of the AI generated script goes a long
way. Overall though, we have a complete
script in hand with minimal effort. Love
it. Now that we have our script, Caput
basically sets up the video project for
us. I click the scenes button. This
brings me into the scenes editor where
each scene or paragraph of my script is
laid out sequentially almost like a
storyboard or timeline. Each scene from
the script is its own segment. At this
point, Cap Cut might have already done
some initial automation, splitting the
script into captions for each scene,
ready for voice over and visuals. Think
of this as the foundation. We have text
for each part of the video. And now we
just need to dress it up with an avatar,
voice, footage, etc. And here we'll add
all the fun stuff. First up, let's get
ourselves a virtual AI presenter. Since
this is a faceless video, I want an AI
avatar to appear on screen and deliver
these lines for me. Cap's avatar feature
makes this super easy. In the AI video
maker interface, I click on avatar
video. This pulls up a gallery of avatar
characters to choose from. They have
avatars and categories like trending,
casual, professional, etc. Each with a
different look and vibe. I'm scrolling
through. There's a friendly looking guy
in a hoodie, a woman in a suit, even
some characters. Let's go with a casual
avatar, someone approachable, like a
virtual version of me. Instantly, avatar
appears in the scene as the presenter.
Here's a fullbodied talking avatar.
Pretty cool, right now. Caput even lets
you create your own avatar from a photo
if you want. I could upload a photo of
myself and have a digital clone, which
is insane. That feature has a limited
free usage, so I will save it for
another time. For now, our chosen avatar
will do the job. Don't worry if your
avatar is just standing on a blank
background. We'll have visuals and
captions around them soon. You can also
resize and position the avatar like
picturein picture or full screen. I'll
keep him in the corner for now while we
add other elements. Next up, let's give
our avatar a voice. Cap Cut has text to
speech built in so it can convert our
script to voice over automatically and
we have a bunch of voice styles to
choose from. I click on the voice over
button the scenes panel or switch to the
voice tab. Here I see a list of AI
voices, male, female, different accents
and languages. There's friendly
narrators, energetic promo voices, calm
documentary tones, even different
languages. If I wanted a Spanish or
Hindi voice over, it's all right here. I
will preview a couple. Welcome to
creating voiceovers. Welcome to creating
voiceovers.
>> Welcome to creating voiceovers.
>> Uh, one voice sounds upbeat and young.
Another sounds like a formal newscaster.
Let's go with this voice for example
because he sounds pretty natural and
confident for our tips video. With the
voice selected, I hit apply to all
scenes. And just like that, Cap Cut
generates the voice over for the entire
script scene by scene. Our avatar is now
talking. Cap Cut has synced the avatar's
lip movements to the voice. Let's play a
quick snippet of the video now with
voice and avatar to see how it's coming
along.
>> Are you tired of spending hours
researching and writing content? You're
not alone. But do you worry because
today I'm going to ship.
>> Well, not bad. The voice is clear and
the avatar looks like a legit presenter.
Sure, it's an AI voice, but a pretty
good one. And remember, if you ever want
to change the voice, it's as easy as a
couple clicks to try a different style.
Cap Cut even has an AI voice changer if
you want to tweak the tone or add
character filters, but that's optional.
For now, I'm happy with the voice. Now,
let's spice up the visuals. We have a
talking avatar, yes, but to keep viewers
engaged, we need cutaways, B-roll, maybe
some graphics. Cap Cuts AI can handle
that, too, thanks to the match media to
script feature. This is where it pulls
in relevant images or footage to
automatically accompany our narration. I
go to the scenes panel and click on the
media section. Caput gives me a few
options for adding visuals to each
scene. Generate AI media. This can
create AI generated images from text.
Think of it like having GBT 4.0 image
generation or midjourney integrated to
make specific images if needed match
your media. If I had my own video clips
or images, I could import them and let
Cap Cut fit them into the script's
timeline. Match stock media, the easiest
for us. Now, Cap Cut will automatically
find stock videos and images that match
the script content. I choose match stock
media. The AI analyzes each scene's text
and starts suggesting visuals. For
example, my first tip in the script is
about researching all night and burning
out. Cap Cut might grab a stock video of
a tired person at a computer late at
night for the tip about scheduling
downtime. Maybe it picks a clip of
someone relaxing or a calendar graphic.
It's shockingly good at finding relevant
visuals that align with the script.
Normally, I'd search stock libraries for
each point I mention, download clips,
cut them to fit. Here, the AI just does
it. Of course, I can review and replace
any clip if I don't like it. Let's say
for the use AI tools tip, cap code
suggested a generic tech animation, but
I prefer screen recording or different
graphic. I can manually swap that, but
honestly, the suggestions look pretty on
point. I will stick with what the AI
chose for now. Great. Now, our video has
an avatar, presenter, and illustrative
footage for each section. What's one
element nearly every engagement video
has these days? You've seen those snappy
subtitles on Tik Toks and shorts, right?
Cap cuts got us covered there, too. It
autogenerated captions for a video as
soon as we had the script and voice over
in place. Because we provided a script,
Cap Cut has already turned that into
timed subtitles for each scene. If I
play through, I see the text appearing
in sync as the avatar speaks. No manual
transcription needed. But we're not
settling for plain white text at the
bottom. Nope. Cap Cut offers a bunch of
stylized caption templates to make the
text pop in the desktop app. These
styles are found under the captions or
text templates section. Let's pick a
style that fits our video's vibe. There
are styles with bold colorful fonts,
dynamic karaoke- like highlighting,
trendy meme text with animations, you
name it. For this video about creator
tips, let's choose a clean but modern
caption style. say big semi-transparent
text that appears word by word with a
slight bounce. I click that template and
apply it to all our captions. We are
nearly finished. The last touch that can
really elevate our video is some
background music. Caput has a builtin
music library full of tracks we can use
royalty-free. Categorize by mood and
genre. Let's add a little background
music to give our videos some energy. I
click on the music tab. There's a list
of recommended tracks and categories.
vlog, inspiration, cinematic, chill,
etc. For our upbeat tips video, I'll
look under something like inspirational
or upbeat and find a track.
[Music]
Oh, here's one. It's got a nice
motivating vibe. I hit the plus to add
it to the timeline. The music is now
under all our scenes playing along with
the voice over. I'll quickly adjust the
volume of the music track so it's not
too loud under the narration. That
already sounds more polished. The music
adds that final professional touch,
making the video feel complete. If
you're watching this and thinking, "This
AI stuff is cool, but I want to go
deeper and really learn how to use tools
like this effectively," then I've got
something for you. We created the
Generative AI 101 course inside the AI
Master membership. It's built on
realworld strategies, stuff we've tested
and used, not just theory. It starts
with the basics like writing your first
prompt and builds all the way up to
advanced tricks that make your AI output
genuinely impressive. And it's not an
overwhelming info dump either. We drop
fresh lessons weekly so you can learn at
your own pace. Stay updated and never
get left behind. Byite-siz modules,
clean walkthroughs, zero fluff, and
since you're here with us on A Master,
we're hooking you up. I want to give you
a full year 63% off. No catch. It's a
crazy good deal. So, if you're serious
about leveling up your AI skills, hit
the link below and join us inside the
membership. All right, moment of truth.
Let's preview our entire video from
start to finish. In Cap Cut, I hit play
and watch it through. Our avatar
introduces the problem of burnout. Each
tip pops up with relevant B-roll
footage. Stylish captions animate on Q
and upbeat music ties it all together.
Honestly, this looks so good. Now that
we're happy with it, it's time to export
the video. I click the bright export
button the top right corner. We get the
usual settings. Resolution, format, etc.
I'll go with 1080p full HD. You can even
do 4K if you want super high quality.
Frame rate 30 is fine for this. Format
MP4. Then I hit export and let Cap Cut
render everything into a final video
file. Export is pretty quick. Few
minutes for our 3minut video. And done.
It's saved to my computer, ready to
publish. Cap Cut even gave me an option
to upload it directly to platforms like
YouTube or Tik Tok, but I can also just
manually upload the file. So, here it
is, our finished AI generated video.
Let's watch a snippet of the final
result one more time.
>> Tip number one, leverage automation for
factual data and current information.
Automation can be a gamecher.
>> As you can see, the quality is really
good. We've got a well-paced narrative,
engaging visuals, even an AI presenter
who doesn't stumble on words. And I
didn't use any pro editing software or
expensive assets, just kept cut and some
creativity. Now, before we wrap up, I
promise to show you an extra bonus
workflow. We focused on a standard
horizontal video, but what about short
form content like YouTube shorts, Tik
Toks, or Instagram reels? In the AI hub,
there's a section for video templates.
These are pre-esigned formats for
popular short video styles. Think of
those trendy meme fact videos, quick
listicles, or aesthetic reels. Capkid
provides templates where the style,
effects, and transitions are already
set. All you have to do is slot in your
content. Let's say I want to create a
15-second motivational quote video for
Instagram. I can pick a template that I
like, for example, one with flashy text
and music that's trending. I select that
template and Cap Cut asks me for a topic
or a short script. Maybe I input daily
motivation. You got this. And hit
create. Caput will autogenerate a short
video out of that. It might write a
snappy script or use my text, choose
some upbeat music, apply the templates,
cool animations, and even add a voice
over all in one go. Literally one click
and I get a finished vertical video with
captions, effects, everything matching
the style I chose. How crazy is that?
And of course, I can tweak it if needed.
Maybe change the background video or
switch the voice over if I prefer a
different vibe. But the heavy lifting is
done automatically. This is perfect for
quickly generating content for social
media. If you have a long video like the
one we just made, you could use these
templates to repurpose it into a teaser
or highlight clip for Tik Tok in
seconds. Just rewrite the script or pick
a key quote and the AI template does the
rest. Basically, you can become a
content machine with this. Trust me, in
the time it used to take me to edit one
video the old way, I can now have a
fulllength video and several tailored
shorts ready to go. If you're excited
about this, I highly recommend you give
Caput's AI video maker a try for your
next project. Remember, it's completely
free and available for Windows, Mac, and
even has mobile and web versions. The
desktop version we used is the most
powerful, so download it from the link
below and play around. You might be
surprised how much you can do. And for
those wondering, yes, free really means
free. No watermark on exports or any of
that nonsense. Hit the like button if
you enjoyed this and subscribe for more
practical AI tool demos, tips, and
tutorials. And don't forget to download
Cap Cut using the link in the
description to start making your own AI
videos. Thanks for watching and I'll see
you in the next